Cloud is used in various fields like industry, military, college, etc. for various services and storage of huge amounts of data. Data stored in this cloud can be accessed or retrieved on the users request without direct access to the server computer. But the major concern regarding storage of data online that is on the cloud is the Security. This Security concern can be solved using various ways, the most commonly used techniques are cryptography and steganography. But sometimes a single technique or algorithm alone cannot provide high-level security. So we have introduced a new security mechanism that uses a combination of multiple cryptographic algorithms of symmetric key and steganography. The proposed model is liable to meet the required security needs of data center of cloud. AES, DES and RSA are used for the encryption of file slices takes minimum time and has maximum throughput for encryption and decryption from other symmetric algorithms. The idea of splitting and merging adds on to meet the principle of data security. The hybrid approach when deployed in cloud environment makes the remote server more secure and thus, helps the cloud providers to fetch more trust of their users. For data security and privacy protection issues, the fundamental challenge of separation of sensitive data and access control is fulfilled. LSB steganography technique is used to securely store the key information. Key information will contain the information regarding the encrypted part of the file, the algorithm and the key for the algorithm. These individual parts of the file will be encrypted using File during encryption is split into three parts different encryption algorithms. The key information is inserted into an image using the LSB technique. Our methodology guarantees better security and protection of customer data by storing encrypted data on a single cloud server.

Keywords— Cloud Storage, Encryption algorithms, steganography
